“Not Everybody will go to Law School”—The Faculty of Law, UNN tell her 2021 Graduates.

Some graduates of the Faculty of Law University of Nigeria, Nuskka, would not be going to Law School even though they legitimately graduated in November 2022 and have been in fact cleared to have no outstanding issues.

The management of the Faculty of Law, University of Nigeria Nsukka has decided to send 147 out of the 217 graduates of the 2021 Law Class to the Nigerian Law School (note that their degree results were just published not on 04 April, 2023). The Faculty of Law has a quota of 220 Law Graduates to send to the Nigerian Law School yearly. However, the management of the faculty has decided to send only 147 graduates (students with 3.4- 5.0 CGPAs) and leave out 70 legitimate graduates because they are not ‘smart enough’. It intends to give the remaining 73 slots to the members of the new 2022 final year class (who just defended their undergraduate project two weeks ago). 
This 2021 class was originally set to graduate in 2021, but incessant strikes pushed their graduation forward to November 2022- they spent 6+ years pursuing a law degree that should take 5 years. 

After the 2022 ASUU strike that lasted till October 2022, they were called back to school in a hurry and told they had to wrap up their degree program in a little over one month so they would make it to law school with their set. With Law school moving resumption dates to January 2023, the faculty still wasn’t able to meet up, even after they assured the students that the rush was to enable them meet up.
To paint a clear picture, the Faculty of Law had half of November and all of December to get their results ready for Law school in January, but that was not done. And now, the faculty has managed to finish the results of a class with more students than the 2021 law class (the 2022 law class) in 3 weeks. It is rumored that through an administrative waiver, the faculty will get this class to law school. A class that just finished their exams on July 8th, getting priority over a class that has waited an entire year long. Legitimate graduates left at home while an undergraduate class will be sent to law school. It has never been heard that a school has law school slots that could take an entire class but will choose to keep some of them at home, because ‘it will be unfair’ to leave the 022 class that defended their undergraduate project two week ago at home for one year, whereas it wasn’t unfair to keep an entire class at home for the same duration with no explanation. 

At this point it’s important to know the effect of this. Students having to study 6 years for a law degree that ordinarily takes one year, and then taking a forced gap year because the faculty couldn’t meet up. Students who stayed home depressed because they were left in limbo, no communication from the faculty on what their fate was, no explanation or apology on why they missed law school. Students who cried through the beginning of the year as they heard their counterparts from universities get into the Nigerian Law School till February 2023. Students who will see their contemporaries get called into the Nigerian Bar, unable to do anything about it. And now, they are ineligible to attend the Nigerian Law School because they do not have first class degrees or second class upper degrees and just maybe 3.42 CGPA’s. These students could not pursue NYSC because they were advised by fellow lawyers that they had better chances getting into Law firms as NYSC lawyers than as just corps members with law degrees. And, even if they wanted to go on with NYSC couldn’t because their results were only released three months ago and the nearest time to apply for NUSC was July— they thought they didn’t have one year to give because Law School should start in November. Just because a Faculty wouldn’t communicate. These students are in danger of loosing another year. 7 years going on 8 years.

The worst part is, after this year, they have no guarantee whatsoever. The 2023 law class would have priority, members of the 021 law class and 022 law class would take third and second turns respectively. It’s worse for graduates with extra years… how does a person manage to successfully graduate after one or two extra years only to be told they cannot go to law school because they didn’t get a 3.4 CGPA even though they fall within the quota expected by the Nigerian Law School. The faculty is about to be chaotic, just because ‘it would be unfair for one set to wait’. The irony of it is, another set is still waiting. 

70 law graduates are about to be displaced from attending the Nigerian Law School and no explanation has been offered as to why this is the case or when they would go if they do not get the opportunity this time.

And what is the criteria for selecting 73 from the 2022 finalists. 73 students in a class of over 340 students. What happens to the rest of the class? 

It is equity that the first in time takes priority. It is a facts that people who graduated with second class lower degrees have gone on to graduate with first class degrees from the Nigerian Law School. The Faculty of Law UNN had one of such Alumni amongst the 2021/2022 new wigs. 

Tag NLS and other famous people. 

Signed, 
A concerned fellow who cannot see the Justice in this arrangement.

